An immutable object is an object whose internal state remains constant after it has been entirely created.

1. String Pool:
    Java String Pool is the special memory region where Strings are stored by the JVM.
    Since Strings are immutable in Java, the JVM optimizes the amount of memory allocated for them by storing
    only one copy of each literal String in the pool. This process is called interning

2. Security:
    The String is widely used in Java applications to store sensitive pieces of information like usernames, passwords,
    connection URLs, network connections, etc.
    let's say that we received a String object from an untrustworthy source.
    We're doing all necessary security checks initially to check if the String is only alphanumeric, followed by some more operations.
    Remember that our unreliable source caller method still has reference to this userName object.
    If Strings were mutable, then by the time we execute the update, we can't be sure that the String we received,
    even after performing security checks, would be safe.
    The untrustworthy caller method still has the reference and can change the String between integrity checks.
    Thus making our query prone to SQL injections in this case. So mutable Strings could lead to degradation of security over time.
    It could also happen that the String userName is visible to another thread, which could then change its value
    after the integrity check.
    In general, immutability comes to our rescue in this case because it's easier to operate
    with sensitive code when values don't change because there are fewer interleavings of operations that might affect the result.

3. Synchronization
Being immutable automatically makes the String thread safe since they won't be changed when accessed from multiple threads.


4. HashCode Caching:
The immutability guarantees Strings that their value won’t change.
So the hashCode() method is overridden in String class to facilitate caching, such that the hash is calculated
and cached during the first hashCode() call and the same value is returned ever since.
This, in turn, improves the performance of collections that uses hash implementations when operated with String objects.